Update faq (#3240)
pingcap/docs: faq/migration-tidb-faq.md

---
title: Migration FAQ
summary: Introduce the FAQs relating to migration in TiDB.

> category: FAQ

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

# Migration FAQ

## Full data export and import

### Does TiDB support Mydumper?

Yes. See [Mydumper Instructions](/mydumper-overview.md).

### Does TiDB support Loader?

Yes. See [Loader Instructions](/loader-overview.md).

### How to migrate an application running on MySQL to TiDB?

Because TiDB supports most MySQL syntax, generally you can migrate your applications to TiDB without changing a single line of code in most cases.

### If I accidentally import the MySQL user table into TiDB, or forget the password and cannot log in, how to deal with it?

Restart the TiDB service, add the `-skip-grant-table=true` parameter in the configuration file. Log into the cluster without password and recreate the user,or recreate the `mysql.user` table.You can search the official website for the specific table structure.

### Can TiDB provide services while Loader is running?

TiDB can provide services while Loader is running because Loader inserts the data logically. But do not perform the related DDL operations.

### How to export the data in TiDB?

Currently, TiDB does not support `select into outfile`. You can use the following methods to export the data in TiDB:

> - See [MySQL uses mysqldump to export part of the table data](https://blog.csdn.net/xin_yu_xin/article/details/7574662) in Chinese and export data using mysqldump and the WHERE condition.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- See [MySQL uses mysqldump to export part of the table data](https://blog.csdn.net/xin_yu_xin/article/details/7574662) in Chinese and export data using mysqldump and the `WHERE` clause.
```

- If a conflict exists in the primary key indexes or the unique indexes in the downstream, preforming the `UPDATE` operation will cause an exit and performing the `INSERT` operation will not cause an exit.

## Migrate the traffic

### How to migrate the traffic quickly?

It is recommended to build a multi-source MySQL -> TiDB real-time replication environment using Syncer tool. You can migrate the read and write traffic in batches by editing the network configuration as needed. Deploy a stable network LB (HAproxy, LVS, F5, DNS, etc.) on the upper layer, in order to implement seamless migration by directly editing the network configuration.

### Is there a limit for the total write and read capacity in TiDB?

The total read capacity has no limit. You can increase the read capacity by adding more TiDB servers. Generally the write capacity has no limit as well. You can increase the write capacity by adding more TiKV nodes.

### The error message `transaction too large` is displayed

Due to the limitation of the underlying storage engine, each key-value entry (one row) in TiDB should be no more than 6MB.

> Distributed transactions need two-phase commit and the underlying implementation performs the Raft replication. If a transaction is very large, the commit process would be quite slow and this transaction is more likely to conflict with other transactions. Moreover, the rollback of a failed transaction leads to an unnecessary performance penalty. To avoid these problems, we limit the total size of key-value entries to no more than 100MB in a transaction by default. If you need larger transactions, change `txn-total-size-limit` in the TiDB configuration file. The maximum value of this configuration item is up to `10G`. The actual limitation might also depend on the hardware of the RAM.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Distributed transactions need two-phase commit and the bottom layer performs the Raft replication. If a transaction is very large, the commit process would be quite slow and the write conflict is more likely to occur. Moreover, the rollback of a failed transaction leads to an unnecessary performance penalty. To avoid these problems, we limit the total size of key-value entries to no more than 100MB in a transaction by default. If you need larger transactions, modify the value of `txn-total-size-limit` in the TiDB configuration file. The maximum value of this configuration item is up to 10G. The actual limitation is also affected by the physical memory of the machine.
```

### How to improve the data loading speed in TiDB?

- The [Lightning](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-overview.md) tool is developed for distributed data import. It should be noted that the data import process does not perform a complete transaction process for performance reasons. Therefore, the ACID constraint of the data being imported during the import process cannot be guaranteed. The ACID constraint of the imported data can only be guaranteed after the entire import process ends. Therefore, the applicable scenarios mainly include importing new data (such as a new table or a new index) or the full backup and restoring (truncate the original table and then import data).
- Data loading in TiDB is related to the status of disks and the whole cluster. When loading data, pay attention to metrics like the disk usage rate of the host, TiClient Error, Backoff, Thread CPU and so on. You can analyze the bottlenecks using these metrics.

### What should I do if it is slow to reclaim storage space after deleting data?

> You can configure concurrent GC to increase the speed of reclaiming storage space. The default concurrency is 1, and you can modify it to at most 50% of the number of TiKV instances using the following command:`update mysql.tidb set VARIABLE_VALUE="3" where VARIABLE_NAME="tikv_gc_concurrency;"`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can configure concurrent GC to increase the speed of reclaiming storage space. The default concurrency is 1, and you can modify it to at most 50% of the number of TiKV instances using the following command:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```
update mysql.tidb set VARIABLE_VALUE="3" where VARIABLE_NAME="tikv_gc_concurrency;"
```
```
